in this lesson i want to look at just a
few identifying the right service type
based on a particular use case
if we look at the skills assessed we're
really just looking at the last one in
this category we're looking at this idea
of identify a service type
based on the use case so we're going to
dive into that particular skill
now we previously drew
all of these different types we had the
idea of running things on premises
infrastructure as a service i.e vm
platform as a service of which there are
different types and then software as a
service where complete business function
is delivered
so how do we use
which and why
again where possible i would like that
business function delivered to me so i'm
going to go for that software as a
service offering as much as i can so if
someone said to me
i need a messaging solution i need email
i need collaboration i'm probably going
to go and look and say like microsoft
365.
i have zero desire to really go and
install exchange and sharepoint and all
of those things
it can just be delivered for me
hey i want to move these domain
controllers or file servers from
on-premises to the cloud
in this case if i still need that type
of service and i'm kind of lifting and
shifting
that probably is not going to run in an
app service or even a container i'm
probably going to use a virtual machine
so if i have some requirement that i
need still direct access to the
operating system and full access and
full control of the os
that's going to be is i need to run it
inside a virtual machine
if i have something that is maybe a web
service hey i'm running apache tomcat
i'm running iis on windows and i want to
move this to azure and i really want to
try and minimize the amount of
responsibility i have
anytime you see web-based that's
probably a nice thing for azure app
services that will run as part of an app
service plan
if i have a scenario where i want to run
a single container i just have some
docker image that i need to run that
could be an azure container instance
but if we say we have some micro service
based architecture that's using
containers but i need auto scale
capabilities i need richer networking
integration i need to have these larger
scale deployments so i need an
orchestrator
well kubernetes is kind of the gold
standard in container orchestration so
the aks the azure kubernetes service
would most likely be what we're going to
do if we have any kind of container
based workload we need to run in a full
rich azure environment there are other
ways to run containers i can even run
containers as part of an app service
plan
but if we talk about the core key
service typically it's going to be aks
now
maybe i have i need to run this unit of
work any time
a certain file gets written to a storage
account or a message gets written to a
queue
that screams serverless
and if i want kind of that rich code and
triggering that's probably going to be
azure functions
if the requirement is
i want to be able to graphically design
a series of steps
when
some things happen maybe someone tweets
something or maybe a i do get some file
on ftp i want to go and call some
sentiment but i really want to make sure
i don't have to do a bunch of coding we
think about this no code world i want to
use this nice logical flow
well that's going to be a logic app i
don't have to do coding i can drag and
drop these various components
so there are different types of service
but they very much
scream out for a certain type of
workload where it is the best fit